Description: Arrays


* Arrays (video):-
1. Array is contiguous area of memory consisting of equal-size elements (of the same type) indexed by contiguous integers.
2. Constant-time access to any element. (Go to def for array)
3. Address of element at index i = array_addr + elem_size x (i-first_index).
4. Constant Time i.e. O(1) to Add or Remove at the End.
5. Linear Time i.e. O(n) to Add or Remove at beginning or middle.
* UCBerkley CS61B - Linear and Multi-Dim Arrays (video):-
1. Two-dimensional array: An array of references to arrays.
2. Can extend to multiple dimensions.
* Basic Arrays (video):- 
1. Simple arrays generally are zero-based index, fixed size(immutable) and specific data type.
2. We should use immutable arrays (i.e. Arrays of fixed size and data types) because they are very fast, smaller and efficient than dynamic arrays.
* Multi-dim (video):-
1. Multidimensional arrays are array of arrays. That means each element of array are itself an array. It can be represented in form of table/matrix. Ex:- arr[row][column]. Here dimension means grouping or nesting information/data.
2. Dimensions in arrays should not be confused with the dimensions in physics. Arrays can in fact have more than 3 dimensions.
* Dynamic Arrays (video):- 
1. Array whose size can be changed after initialization.
2. Dynamically-allocated arrays :- Here we actually allocate the array, determining the size of that array at runtime and it gets allocated from dynamic memory.
3. Dynamic arrays or resizeable array:- It’s an abstract data type where we store a pointer rather than directly storing a reference to our dynamically allocated array. And replace it with a newly-allocated array as needed.
* Jagged Arrays (video):-
1. Array of arrays. The array elements of the array can be of unequal size.
2. It is quite similar to 2-dimension i.e. array of arrays. But here each row can store unequal amount of data unlike 2-dimension which have consistent length of rows.
3. 2-D array is also called rectangular array.
* Resizing arrays (video);- 
1. Re-sizable array or dynamic array or mutable array and are same.
2. Ex:- Standard array of JavaScript and Ruby, Vector in C++, ArrayList in java and NSMutableArray in Objective-C.
3. List in Python is a data structure whose not an array but it has equivalent behavior of mutable array.
4. In Python to add element at the end of list:- "list.append(value)" and for specific index we use:- "list.insert(i,value)".
5. And to delete at the end we use:- "list.pop()" and for a specific index we use:- "del list[i]" and "list.pop(i)" or for a specific value:- "list.remove(value)".